#summary Installation of the OpenCL Programming Guide sample code

= Introduction =

The sample code for the OpenCL Programming Guide was designed to work on a variety of OpenCL 1.1-compatible devices and platforms.  This page details instructions on building the sample code for a select set of platforms.  The code has been tested on Mac OS X 10.6.8, Microsoft Windows 7, and Ubuntu Linux 11.04.  The sample code has been tested using the AMD, Nvidia, and Apple OpenCL implementations.


= Prerequisites =

The OpenCL sample code depends on the following libraries:

  * An OpenCL v1.1 implementation for your platform/device
  * [http://freeimage.sourceforge.net/ FreeImage] (optional, required for _Chapter_8/ImageFilter2D_ example only)
  * [http://www.boost.org/ Boost] (optional, required for _Chapter_16/Dijkstra_ example, Linux/Mac-only)

Please download/install the appropriate OpenCL implementation for your platform along with FreeImage and Boost before attempting to build the sample code.

= Checkout the source code ==

Instructions for checking out the source code from Subversion can be found at [https://code.google.com/p/opencl-book-samples/source/checkout].  Checkout the code to a local folder using a Subversion client on your platform and return to this page for further instructions.

= Building the source code ==

The following sections describe how to build the source code for each of the platforms that the code has been tested on.

== Microsoft Windows 7 w/ Microsoft Visual Studio 2008 ==

Preparation:

 * Download and unzip the Freeimage DLL installation from [http://freeimage.sourceforge.net/download.html] to a location on your disk such as c:\Freeimage (optional, required for _Chapter_8/ImageFilter2D_ example only)
 * Download and install cmake from [http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html] using the Win32 Installer.  
 * Download and install OpenCL for your platform, for example the NVIDIA GPU Computing SDK or the AMD Stream SDK.

Building:

 * Run cmake-gui and set "Where is the source code" to the location of the root directory where you checked out the tree (e.g., c:\opencl-book-samples)
 * Set "Where to build the binaries" to the folder you want to store the output, such as c:\opencl-book-samples\build
 * Click "Configure"
 * If you wish to build _Chapter_8/ImageFilter2D_, then switch to "Advanced View" and set FREEIMAGE_LIBRARY to c:\Freeimage\Dist\Freeimage.lib and set FREEIMAGE_INCLUDE_PATH to c:\Freeimage\Dist and FREEIMAGE_FOUND to True.
 * Click "Configure" and then "Generate"
 * Now open C:\opencl-book-samples\build\ALL_BUILD.sln in Visual Studio 2008 and click "Build" and it should build the sample code.